Keywords, which we define as a sequence of one or more words, provide a
compact representation of a document’s content. Ideally, keywords represent in
condensed form the essential content of a document. Keywords are widely used
to define queries within information retrieval (IR) systems as they are easy to
define, revise, remember, and share. In comparison to mathematical signatures,
keywords are independent of any corpus and can be applied across multiple
corpora and IR systems.
Keywords have also been applied to improve the functionality of IR systems.
Jones and Paynter (2002) describe Phrasier, a system that lists documents
related to a primary document’s keywords, and that supports the use of keyword
anchors as hyperlinks between documents, enabling a user to quickly access
related material. Gutwin et al. (1999) describe Keyphind, which uses keywords
from documents as the basic building block for an IR system. Keywords can also
be used to enrich the presentation of search results. Hulth (2004) describes Keegle,
a system that dynamically provides keyword extracts for web pages returned
from a Google search. Andrade and Valencia (1998) present a system that automatically
annotates protein function with keywords extracted from the scientific
literature that are associated with a given protein.
Despite their utility for analysis, indexing, and retrieval, most documents do
not have assigned keywords. Most existing approaches focus on the manual
assignment of keywords by professional curators who may use a fixed taxonomy,
or rely on the authors’ judgment to provide a representative list. Research has
therefore focused on methods to automatically extract keywords from documents
as an aid either to suggest keywords for a professional indexer or to generate
summary features for documents that would otherwise be inaccessible.
Early approaches to automatically extract keywords focus on evaluating
corpus-oriented statistics of individual words. Jones (1972) and Salton et al.
(1975) describe positive results of selecting for an index vocabulary the
statistically discriminating words across a corpus. Later keyword extraction
research applies these metrics to select discriminating words as keywords for
individual documents. For example, Andrade and Valencia (1998) base their
approach on comparison of word frequency distributions within a text against
distributions from a reference corpus.
While some keywords are likely to be evaluated as statistically discriminating
within the corpus, keywords that occur in many documents within the corpus are
not likely to be selected as statistically discriminating. Corpus-oriented methods
also typically operate only on single words. This further limits the measurement of
statistically discriminating words because single words are often used in multiple
and different contexts.
To avoid these drawbacks, we focus our interest on methods of keyword
extraction that operate on individual documents. Such document-oriented
methods will extract the same keywords from a document regardless of the
current state of a corpus. Document-oriented methods therefore provide contextindependent
document features, enabling additional analytic methods such as
those described in Engel et al. (2009) and Whitney et al. (2009) that characterize
changes within a text stream over time. These document-oriented methods are
suited to corpora that change, such as collections of published technical abstracts
that grow over time or streams of news articles. Furthermore, by operating on a
single document, these methods inherently scale to vast collections and can be
applied in many contexts to enrich IR systems and analysis tools.
Previous work on document-oriented methods of keyword extraction has combined
natural language processing approaches to identify part-of-speech (POS)
tags that are combined with supervised learning, machine-learning algorithms, or
statistical methods.
Hulth (2003) compares the effectiveness of three term selection approaches:
noun-phrase (NP) chunks, n-grams, and POS tags, with four discriminative features
of these terms as inputs for automatic keyword extraction using a supervised
machine-learning algorithm.
Mihalcea and Tarau (2004) describe a system that applies a series of syntactic
filters to identify POS tags that are used to select words to evaluate as keywords.
Co-occurrences of the selected words within a fixed-size sliding window are accumulated within a word co-occurrence graph. A graph-based ranking
algorithm (TextRank) is applied to rank words based on their associations in
the graph, and then top ranking words are selected as keywords. Keywords that
are adjacent in the document are combined to form multi-word keywords. Mihalcea
and Tarau (2004) report that TextRank achieves its best performance when
only nouns and adjectives are selected as potential keywords.
Matsuo and Ishizuka (2004) apply a chi-square measure to calculate how
selectively words and phrases co-occur within the same sentences as a particular
subset of frequent terms in the document text. The chi-square measure is applied
to determine the bias of word co-occurrences in the document text which is
then used to rank words and phrases as keywords of the document. Matsuo and
Ishizuka (2004) state that the degree of biases is not reliable when term frequency
is small. The authors present an evaluation on full text articles and a working
example on a 27-page document, showing that their method operates effectively
on large documents.
In the following sections, we describe Rapid Automatic Keyword Extraction
(RAKE), an unsupervised, domain-independent, and language-independent
method for extracting keywords from individual documents. We provide details
of the algorithm and its configuration parameters, and present results on a benchmark
dataset of technical abstracts, showing that RAKE is more computationally
efficient than TextRank while achieving higher precision and comparable recall
scores. We then describe a novel method for generating stoplists, which we use to
configure RAKE for specific domains and corpora. Finally, we apply RAKE to a
corpus of news articles and define metrics for evaluating the exclusivity, essentiality,
and generality of extracted keywords, enabling a system to identify keywords
that are essential or general to documents in the absence of manual annotations.